welcome i'm Deronda with foods 101 today
I'm going to show you how to make one of
the freshest Caesar salads you've ever
had now to get this salad together you
really want to start with the freshest
romaine lettuce you want about 10 to 12
bite-sized pieces of your romaine
lettuce now here's a head of romaine
lettuce and what I do is I cut about and
about an inch or two off the end and I
separate each leaf and I rinse it under
fresh clean running water and shake out
the excess water and dry it really well
and store it in the refrigerator till
ready to use because you want it nice
and crispy and crunchy and chilled all
right
you're going to need 1/2 a cup of olive
oil 1 tablespoon of mayonnaise if you
don't want to use mayonnaise use 1 egg
yolk that I chose to use mayonnaise in
place of the egg yolk today I've got a
teaspoon of Dijon mustard 1 fresh lemon
two garlic cloves that I'm going to
mince 2 anchovies I got fresh Parmesan
cheese here that I'm going to grate and
add to this salad I've got a cup or two
of croutons depending on how many
croutons you winning your Caesar salad
I'm going to leave it up to you to
choose and I'm going to add a few drops
of your Worcestershire sauce or maybe up
to one teaspoon and for flavoring and
taste I'm going to do salt and pepper
here at the end so let me show you how
we're going to get this dressing started
to make your garlic you're going to take
a knife you're going to put it here on
your garlic cloves and you're going to
give it a nice smacking with the back of
your hands okay and then you'll see how
your garlic paper is just going to peel
off and you're going to have this lovely
fresh garlic if you have any little
brown spots right there
you can go ahead and remove them with
your knife be sure you cut away from
yourself the last thing you want to do
is cut yourself and then I go ahead and
remove the ends like this not necessary
but I like mine really nice and clean
just like that and now we're going to
start mincing it and keep going back and
forth with your knife till you have a
fine mince on your garlic we've got our
garlic finely minced see how fine that
is and we're going to add it to this
large mixing bowl
and I've got a glass mixing bowl I'm
using but if you have a real beautiful
wooden bow you'd like to use you may do
that too and now with the end Chubby's
we're going to go in here and we're
going to remove - these are packed in
oil you can use in so these that are
packed in salt and actually that's why I
was trying to find use but had no luck
so we're going to remove two anchovies
here there's one mmm hey this little can
was fun to open - there's two now with
the back of a fork we're going to just
smash it in to that garlic okay and the
reason you want to do this in your bowl
is because when you start releasing all
these oils you want to be sure to keep
them in the bowl so they can absorb in
your romaine lettuce when you get ready
to toss it you see how your garlic and
your anchovies has worked into this
really fine paste or like a puree that's
what you're looking for now we're going
to add the mayonnaise to it okay and
like I said if you want to add the egg
yolk instead of mayonnaise by all means
do that that will thicken it up and then
using my baby spatula here I'm going to
use going to add that Dijon mustard and
that Dijon mustard is going to make all
the difference in the world and I use
the champagne flavour but if you just
have the regular on hand as absolutely
perfectly fine I'm going to add a few
drops of that Worcestershire sauce
I would say no more than a half a
teaspoon that looks perfect and now to
this we're going to start whisking in
that olive oil with my handy dandy whisk
I'm going to slowly add a nice stream of
olive oil you know
Cardini Caesar but just kind of a
history behind this salad he was an
immigrant from Italy and he opened
restaurants here in America and down in
Mexico and I guess when one has it that
this was a salad he was serving in his
restaurant around you know the 4th of
July when the US was celebrating its own
independence all right see how lovely
and thick that skidding that's what
you're looking for oh my gosh absolutely
fantastic and if you could be in my
kitchen right now and smell how
delicious it is we're going to add that
fresh lemon right into our dressing and
I love this lemon squeezer you can
squeeze limes lemons these are little
lemons so I'm using the wine part of my
squeezer here make sure you get it all
out and then of course I've got a little
bit more here I'm going to add a little
mercy
I've been grading that Parmesan cheese
in there and I'm using a fine grater and
we're going to add about a half a cap
and here's my 1/2 cup we're going to add
to it and we're doing we're just going
to whisk this in to the dressing all
right yeah I'm going to show you how
we're going to put the lettuce in it for
the romaine lettuce you just want to
stack it on top like this and with a
chef's knife I cut it down the center
once and if you'd like to tear it into
bite-sized pieces you may do that too
and then I just take my knife and I
begin to cut it just like this and if
you have pieces that are a little too
big by all means you can tear it into
the size you're looking for like this
I'm just going to tear that apart and
now we're going to edit over here until
our Caesar dressing oh my goodness then
when we get all the lettuce in there I'm
going to show you how I'm going to give
it a little of
Lea little tossing but you want to
continue cutting apart your romaine
lettuce and oh my goodness this is going
to be so fresh and delicious I just
can't wait all right I'll be back to
show you how we're gonna toss it looky
at all that beautiful romaine and look
about the dressing on the bottom now
we're going to give it this lovely
tossing this is my favorite part and
we're going to coat all this romaine
lettuce as you can see it's coming
together
ooh oh my it's so fresh I've got that
fresh lemon I'm picking up on and I've
got the ooh flavors of the anchovies and
the olive oil and the romaine lettuce
along with that lovely delicious
Parmesan cheese okay now for the
croutons this is the time we're going to
add the croutons because we want the
croutons to start absorbing that
dressing and if you want to know how to
make fresh croutons check out the link
I've added below this food video and
watch on how to make French croutons
there's nothing better than fresh
croutons alright that looks absolutely
perfect now I'm going to add a little
fresh cracked pepper okay fresh cracked
mix all the difference in the world okay
and a little kosher salt a lab a little
bit of kosher salt not much just a
little bit and if you opt out of it
that's fine too and now really to make
this lovely and presentable take that
block of Parmesan cheese and take you a
vegetable peeler and just peel you some
strips of that Parmesan cheese hearing
your salad before serving or put it on
individual dishes and shave a little
fresh Parmesan cheese on the top of your
salad oh my goodness it's going to be
absolutely heavenly all right I'll be
back I'm going to show you how
serve it and I'll give it a taste and
tell you what it's like Oh My heavens is
this going to be delicious
so nice and fresh looky there oh my
goodness this is like a mill in itself
now if you'd like take that block of
parmesan and just gray just some lovely
fresh cheese on the top
add some fresh crushed pepper a few more
croutons if you wish and let's dig in so
I'm going to tell you what it's like mmm
looky there mmm
you won't go wrong with this Caesar
salad
mr. Cardini knew what he was doing when
he put this together hey you all I'm to
Ronda with foods 101 thanks for watching
leave me a comment and I'll catch you
next time